thank you he's very sweet he uh
has some bad anxiety himself but he's
good
yeah i i recently heard that um that you
know people will give
uh dogs like anti-anxiety medication
yeah he could use some
i think um i've tried like cbd treats
for him but it just puts him to sleep so
yeah that does no good so he's fine he's
just a stress case
i i once tried to play a joke on my boss
when i was in training
that i wanted to do pet therapy
[Laughter]
and and so people think that pet therapy
is like when you have like a therapy
support animal right
and so like it's like you know i want to
you know work with animals to help
people with mental health
but then i tried to explain her no no i
don't want to i don't want to do pet
i don't want to do therapy with pet i
want to be a pet therapist
so i want to i want a dog so if we're
giving them medication
we should also do psychotherapy with
them and so have a dog come to my house
it could be it could be his stream
he's not happy about it yeah he seems a
little bit
anxious or something yeah
um so and and how do i refer to you
um you can call me blair blair okay
and um blair i'm all oak or people call
me dr k
you can call me either one okay um
and so tell me a little bit thank you
very much for coming on on stream
of course and tell tell me a little bit
about what we're talking about today
or if there's something um goodness
that is so hard yes um
no what yeah sorry yeah
um i uh i don't know
i don't know i i think i like talked in
the dms
um about like some different things we
could touch on i don't
i just like my biggest as stupid as this
is and i know i shouldn't be worried
about this
i'm just like so worried about like
like i talk about mental health on my
stream all the time because like uh
so i have i've had uh like generalized
anxiety
um it used to be really severe for
like probably around six years at this
point um but i've gotten much better at
it
um but so i talk about anxiety a lot
plus i went through
uh i have like a really bad hypochondria
that is backed up by like really cool
ocd tendencies so i get like i can
spiral out of kind of like control
essentially and just get
wrapped up in a bunch of irrational
thoughts and so i had like
a big episode of that like a year ago
and so i like talked my stream a lot
about
mental health and so it's like i talk
about mental health a lot um
but i i the interesting thing is since
i'm on twitch
whenever i do talk about mental health i
delete um
like i delete my vods afterwards because
i don't want to be harassed over it does
that make sense
sure so it's weird to like it's not
weird but it's like
it's different to like come on here
and be like okay we're talking about it
and there's you know like
not no going back but like we're gonna
be productive about it
well i mean so first let me start by
saying we can go back
right so if if anything happens that
you're not comfortable with or things
like that we can
stop uh him down
that's okay um so so
you know we can we can always pull the
plug
okay right that's that's fair
um i don't want you to feel i mean i
imagine you're gonna feel pressured but
i don't want you to
give in to the pressure and if we talk
about something that's uncomfortable or
making you uncomfortable
that's totally cool like we can stop or
what may
actually be useful is for us to
understand what makes you uncomfortable
and where that comes from
yeah okay um so what i'm set like have
you been harassed over it before
um the my biggest thing
is i think i think
i'm kind of like a perfectionist and so
being on the internet
is just hard in general because the
things that they can harass you over
is like so minuscule and
to try to not get wrapped up in that is
exhausting i guess um to try to like
dehumanize yourself
because you want to be a streamer and
you want to be successful
um like it
so it's like i've gotten harassed over
the weirdest things like i
i have the word bald band in my chat
because like people would come in and
they'd be like oh cutie cinderella you
look like you're balding or
are you going bald and so then like i
was so
distraught by this like i went to
multiple doctors i like
went to a plastic surgeon i had multiple
people i've like looked into rogaine
like i'm so concerned about going
bald and it's like the craziest things
that can just like trigger this
this train of thoughts that it's just
it's like it's so
annoying because it's like uh you want
to be a human on the internet but it
seems impossible sometimes
wow that sounds so you you seem like you
have
somewhat of a
you gotta let me know so if i say
something out of line you gotta let me
know and i okay
i don't mean to be mean but it sounds
like you've got a couple of like things
that are really like
coalescing and and feel pretty bad like
it sounds awful like if you've got
some amount of hypoch chondriasis or ocd
and then like that sounds like a
terrible combination
with people picking random and
making memes out of it because it sounds
quite like it like one feeds the other
does that make sense
no it does it's it's it's like it's
exhausting
in a way um especially like uh
i uh it's weird because like to grow on
this platform
and i kind of talked about this on my
stream last night to grow on this
platform
it's like you have to have so many
realms of like social media like you
have to post on instagram you have to
post on twitter you have to
do all these things and to do that with
confidence
is so scary i guess is the word like
i uh i can't like i i just can't take
pictures of myself because if i post it
people are going to call me names and if
they don't call me names and they think
that i'm full of myself because i'm
posting pictures of myself it's like
there's always two
thoughts going into everything and so it
feels like there's never any right
answer
you seem really really conflicted yeah
like you want to talk about mental
health and then you pull off the bond
yeah like you need to be human and
authentic but being human and authentic
screws you yeah that sounds tough
i i don't know how you navigate the
world without a right answer
yeah and it's like in everything i do i
feel like i never
i feel like i'm never confident in
what i should be saying what i should be
doing
in myself like sometimes
sometimes i'll be streaming and
i'll feel fine i'll feel fine and then
it's like i i don't think i don't think
chat realizes because i
i don't know if you've heard this from
other streamers before but it's like
you get that like people are like oh
just don't read the don't read chat
forehead right like
just don't read it and you're like oh
okay but like
how i've always explained it is like
i'll be sitting there playing
mario and someone will say
uh like someone will just come in and be
like who's this ugly
like literally that's all they'll say
and you're like okay cool band whatever
you know like let's just move on i'm
playing a
video game like why are why are my looks
part of this conversation and then
a few minutes later somebody else comes
in and like oh she looks stupid or like
and it's just like a constant like
banging over the head to the point that
i'm like well i need to end stream
like i just i can't do it anymore and so
it's like
i guess my question is like what do you
like how do you how do you like how can
you be successful
when it gets so hard to even
stay live or stay in front of people um
in that capacity it's a great question
can i think for a second yeah for sure
i mean so the first thought that i have
is like when people say just don't read
chat
that defeats the purpose of twitch yeah
right without chat you're just playing
video games by yourself
that's not what twitch is about twitch
is about chat
chat is like chat is like what twitch is
about right
yeah kinda weird um
because without twitch chat it's just
playing video games
so and then the other thing that i'm
hearing from you is
how do you continue to stream when
people say things
to you i mean what i'm hearing from you
is that like you have a health bar
and that sometimes when people say
certain things
you like lose some hp and then
eventually you run out of hp and then
you can't stream anymore
is that fair to say yeah and i think
it's like
there's a big part that i feel like
people don't
i feel like people don't even know and
maybe i'm just too sensitive of a person
but it's like i don't think people know
all the time what they're saying and why
it's hurtful like
i am i'm friends with other streamers so
people will come in my chat and they'll
say hey what is
so and so doing and it's like i'm like
don't use me as your way to get to
somebody else like you know what i'm
saying like
it makes me feel so inhuman like just go
to
like go to their chat like you don't
have to ask me or
or like uh i don't know just say like
there's just like this game of comparing
too so it's like
like again i'm friends with lots of
streamers so people will come in and
they'll be like oh you have less viewers
than
than so and so you know and it's just
like it's this never-ending game of like
comparing yourself
to people and maybe that's my fault like
maybe i shouldn't think of it that way
um but that how it that's how it like
feels a lot is that i'm constantly
like in order to be successful i have to
be this and why am i not
at a thousand viewers is it because of x
y and like
and so then i look at the people that
are at a thousand viewers and what are
they doing that i'm not doing and it's
just like this
constant train of like
never-ending thoughts if that makes
sense yeah so if i were to
to he
if i were to recap what i heard so what
i'm hearing is what i would call a lot
of should thoughts
so like you should be doing this there's
a lot of comparison
yeah you should be streaming more you
should be on instagram you should be
this you should be this you should be
this
what do you think about that um
i think i think
i think i just like i've always been a
very hard worker um
and so like twitch has never been my
full-time job until recently
so i just actually put in my two weeks
due to covid
i've been like working and not getting
paid for the past two months so finally
i was like okay i'm gonna put in my two
weeks i'm gonna do this twitch thing
here we go i haven't like my two weeks
isn't up yet but
i've always said to myself that i
couldn't handle twitch mentally
um as a full-time job so i'm like i'm
very scared
and it's also like i've always been
successful at anything i've ever done
like i was
top in my company i was in an interior
design firm and it's like
going into twitch knowing that i'll
never be the top is kind of like
very daunting because i guess i think i
like
i find and i've said this to a lot of
people because i felt very defeated like
quitting my job because i find my
self-worth
100 in oh she is successful and now i'm
not that
and so it's like well now who am i
that seems weird to say out loud but
yeah
what are you feeling disappointed
in yourself yeah
and what is disappointing about you
i don't know um i just feel like
this sounds dumb um
i just feel like
i i feel like
i'm like trying to climb a mountain that
like there isn't
necessarily like a top to and i don't
know how i'm gonna do it
and i don't know why i'm putting myself
in that situation if i like
like i'm a planner and what gives me
like with ocd you probably know this
what like gives me
comfort is knowing that there is a plan
and if i know there's not a plan
then i can get very wrapped up in just
these horrible trains of thoughts and
like
then that's where like my ocd tendencies
come in like okay well if i drink a
coffee
before i go live every day my stream's
gonna be better and then that turns into
if i drink a coffee with this amount of
creamer in it then my stream is gonna be
better and then it's like if i use this
cup
then it slowly compounds all these
patterns that i just start using as a
way of comfort
because that's the only way that i have
control in the situation because in
reality i have so much limited control
of what i can do it
like it it drives me crazy
okay excellent
blair you're doing great
and i'm hopeful for you i feel weird
yes i can imagine so what feels weird
right now um
i don't know i'm worried that this is
like i'm worried that this is stupid i'm
worried that
people don't like i'm worried that
people like
as stupid as like i've worn that people
think it's boring i worry that people
are like this is dumb why are we talking
about this like
i don't know okay let me tell you why
we're talking about it i think this is
great
okay there's so much to say i just
okay here's the issue so you lack
confidence okay so let's just think
about
what that does to someone so
here's why you try to control so there
are a lot of things going on first is
that you try to control things you're
perfectionistic you have anxiety
how does all that fit together and
what does that have to do with
confidence
what does that have to do with your
feelings of disappointment i'm going to
try to lay it out usually i lay things
out at the end
but now i'm gonna try to lay things out
at the beginning because you've done
such an awesome job
of showing us what's in your mind so
let's try to piece it together
so the first thing is
let's say that like i'm good at like
hunting and foraging
and taking care of myself and i'm
confident that i can survive in the
wilderness
how much preparation do i have if i go
camping
how much preparation do i need let me
ask ask that
um i mean a lot
is sort of writing yeah
maybe it's a bad example um so so i
i guess what i mean to say is generally
speaking
if i'm confident in myself i don't have
to control a whole lot of variables
okay does that make sense yes
how so um
i think of it like uh one thing i'm okay
at
is like baking and so it's like if i
bake
i don't need like i can just i can just
start doing it
because i've done it for years so i
never like yeah
exactly right so so like like how bad is
your ocd or your anxiety when it comes
to baking
not bad okay so this is important
because if you're confident in yourself
then you know that you can handle the
challenges that come
and if you're not confident in yourself
that leads to let's call it anxiety and
ocd although i don't really know if it's
ocd
but uh what that means is that you have
to control
everything because you're not assured of
the result like you have to have your
coffee with x amount of creamer
and that removes a little bit of
uncertainty from the equation so you're
you fight a war against uncertainty
every day
and the reason that you have to fight
that war is because
if we think about like what is how how
do we define confidence
confidence is like literally the ability
to face uncertainty
if i go out fishing and i know that i
know how to fish
i don't have to control a whole lot i'm
like i'm going to grab my fishing rod
i'm going to grab some bait
and i'm going to figure it out you have
faith in yourself that you're gonna
figure it out
you don't need the world to give you
certainty because you
have faith that you can handle it
whatever comes
so the first thing is that you know
i think you try to exert a lot of
control because if we think
about it like control is an antidote to
anxiety
what is anxiety it's like i worry this
is going to happen i worry this is going
to happen i worry this is going to
happen
and so how do we deal with those worries
what we do is we control those things
right if i if i have a hat on people may
not comment
about me being bald yeah right
so yeah so we control all kinds of
little variables
to remove those anxieties out of the
equation
the funny thing is that every time we
control a variable
to get rid of a little bit of anxiety
was that hurtful when i said no you're
okay
you're okay uh
is that why you wear a hat uh
a lot of the time yeah right so see like
so so we can see that what
so here's the problem though i'm sorry i
didn't i didn't mean to make you feel
self-conscious
no you're okay um so
i mean i i did mean that i used it
i used that as an example because i i
think i think it's a perfect example
yeah okay and they're your camera okay
there we go so so the
the reason that we do that look look at
me don't look at chat
minimize chat you know what's great chat
no i was looking over at my twitter i'll
minimize that okay um so
here's the thing so you have this beast
of anxiety which is based on confidence
but if you control the variables and
remove those from the equation what
happens to your sense of confidence when
you do something
when i do anything so so let's say that
you
stream and you're concerned about having
a bad stream so you drink your cup of
coffee
and then you have a good stream how
confident are you the next time
i'm not absolutely now this is an
interesting question why not
um because i never know who's gonna come
and chat i never know who's gonna be
rude to me today i never know
what they're gonna be offended by i
never know if they're gonna be mad that
i'm wearing too much makeup or not
enough makeup or they're gonna tell me
again like
how small my tits are because
they're smaller than the other girls on
this platform like it's exhausting
okay so that is that is the
manifestation the all of those thoughts
are the manifestation of your lack of
confidence
that's what lack of confidence grows
into
right but here's my question if you have
a good stream
and people don't say those kinds of
things why does that not lead to
confidence
because one would think that a success
should lead to confidence
but in your case it doesn't um why i
don't know people ask me that like
i think my mom my mods ask me that all
the time they'll be like cutie there's a
hundred nice comments in chat
why does one make you stop stream you
know what i'm saying like
it's just like it's so it's frustrating
like i don't know
like i don't know but it's like i guess
i i
i think it's like for example when
people say like oh
like cutie you're not funny that one
doesn't hurt me because i'm like
no i'm funny you know like i know i'm a
funny person but like
when people come in and they're like
cutie
looks like you've gained weight or
like all these superficial things it's
like well i can't control that as much
as i try like i've always looked this
way
okay i'm gonna try to i'm gonna try to
draw
all right so this could end poorly um
so give me a second because i think this
is important
all right so let me start can i uh
[Music]
what do i need
sorry sorry about this you're okay i'm
excited
i think i'm gonna try to teach you
something
so the question is okay so there are
some things so let's like try to
understand
the the nature of confidence okay
and where confidence comes from okay
so here's the thing so there's some
things that you're confident about like
baking
and being funny so what i want to point
out to you is that when your confidence
level let's let's say you have low
confidence
and then this leads to anxiety
or ocd and then this leads to
controlling things actually let me put
this here
so let's say that your anxieties are
where at actually that's wrong
sorry i'm trying to figure this out as i
go okay you're okay so
balding wait
and then what's something else that
you're
you said a couple of things uh just like
my face in general
people will say i look like a horse um
the okay so these these are the
anxieties
these are the manifestations of anxiety
do you understand what i mean by
manifestation of anxiety
um like where they live yeah so like
you're
you have anxiety and then it like
it bears fruit like a particular thought
does that make sense like so you're
anxious about balding your weight
comparison
horse face whatever yeah then what
happens is in order to reduce so this is
high anxiety
in order to reduce the anxiety
what you do is you exert control yeah
right so wear hat
um you know uh careful
about shapeliness
yeah i'll usually throw on a hoodie or
like
beautiful right so we can call that we
know that's gonna happen
okay so then what happens is that your
anxiety kind of goes down
right yeah so then something weird
happens so so we have all of our control
factors
so now what we're going to do is this
and then so you control for all of these
things
right so let's move that down here and
then let's say that this results in
having a good stream see i'm even i'm
scared to like say these things like
even on the internet like i'm scared to
be like oh i hate when you guys
say that i'm balding i hate when you
guys say that i'm fat i hate when you
guys say that i'm ugly because i feel
like it just encourages people
to like do it for a 10 you know so i
feel like my my chat is going to be
a disaster when i stream again like i
i'm
very nervous about that yeah so so i
understand that you're nervous
and i think unfortunately some of that
anxiety is warranted
yeah okay and and so i'm not going to
tell you not to feel nervous because
sometimes people are on the
internet and that's just how it is
yeah and i'm sorry that you feel that
way what i am
hoping is that
what we're doing right now is we're
we're rolling the dice
and my hope honestly blair my hope is
that by
exposing yourself you have the
opportunity to learn about yourself
in a way that will help you more than
the on the internet can heart
harm you i see okay how do you feel
about that
uh sounds great
right so blair my hope is to like
start you on the journey today to free
yourself of this
general problem yeah i see okay
so now the question is like if you have
a good stream
does that lead to increase in confidence
or decrease incompetence
um increase
incorrect okay that's what it should do
right
this is what we think is gonna happen
but what does that actually do to you
like this is you just said i asked you
when you have a good stream do you feel
better about yourself and what did you
say
i said i think because it just makes me
more nervous that the next one won't be
as good as the last one
exactly so this is the first really
really important thing to understand
okay
is that we think confidence comes
from like if we think confidence comes
from successes
right but the truth is that somehow this
decreases your confidence now that's
kind of weird because like now like
let's just look at the situation that
we're doing so like
how like this is weird right so then
what happens is like
because here's the thing this
goes here right yeah and then anxiety
increases
and then this increases this increases
this increases
then you control things more and then
you have a good stream
and then your confidence decreases you
see how it's a cycle
uh-huh and this is why you're screwed
right it's weird
yeah no it's true it's like like i
talked
i i've given this example before but
like i used to
like on my personal instagram which has
like maybe a hundred followers
that i used to use years ago it's like
if i was feeling very unconfident about
the way i looked it was like
i would i would dress up and i'd put
makeup on and i'd take a cute selfie and
this was years ago
like literally six seven years ago i'd
take a selfie and post it and it'd get
like 30 likes and i'd be like oh like
people think i'm pretty like i'd feel so
good about myself
but then um there was a guy i was seeing
at the time and it was like
new and he like showed me to his sister
and his sister like instagram stalked me
and he said
wow she must be full of herself because
she has lots of selfies
and so like ever since then now i can't
take pictures because it's like this
battle of like
well i want to be confident but i don't
want people to think that i'm a shitty
person because i'm trying to be
confident so it's it's weird like
there's like
there's always like a battle between
like
like trying to be like like happy with
yourself and then also like
the way you present yourself i don't
know like it doesn't make sense yes it
makes perfect sense and we'll get there
and this so blair this comes down to the
basic issue here
is that your sense of self-worth is
determined by other people
i see okay right so like you're taking
it like so if i'm taking a selfie
because i want to take a selfie
and and then people say like oh dr k is
full of himself because he's taking
selfies
like they're allowed to think that but
that's not why i'm doing it
okay and so like why does the
why do you value the reasons that they
think you do it over why you actually do
it
um right so they think that you do it
because you're a narcissistic
yeah you do it because you like to take
selfies
and so like but what happens is that
anytime there's like there's a conflict
between you and them
you default to their position there are
a hundred people who say nice things to
you
there's one person who calls you
maulding and then
you like default to that person yeah
so that's that's because literally what
you're doing is you have an opinion of
yourself
and then they have an opinion of you
uh let's
their opinion and what you do
is this yes
right so this is because so this is
because of a lack of confidence so we're
going to get there in a second we'll
talk more about that okay
okay so the first thing that that that i
mean does that make sense because you
don't have faith in yourself
you don't have a sense of your intrinsic
worth i also like i also just like
i just like as stupid as it is it's like
i just want
them to be happy does that make sense
like i said like yeah
like right yeah i don't know that you
want them to be happier do you want them
to like you
i think yeah maybe maybe like me i mean
but if you
like me then they're happy right
so now we get to the root of it
that's the problem
then though
man blair you're giving me too much i'm
sorry
no it's great it's actually really good
so now the question is
when did you start believing that
people liking you made them happy
um that you have to be a particular way
to make
other people happy probably like
high school okay so like that's where we
need to dig into this belief
yeah because their happiness does not
depend on them liking you
but like i understand that you have a
part of your mind that believes that
yeah
right so like this is something that's a
big problem in our community which is
that
we believe first of all that we have the
capacity to make
other people like us and also that we
have the capacity to make other people
happy
yeah and the more that you try to get
them to like you
and the more that
you try to make them happy the more
this increases because you're valuing
them
over yourself and then the question
becomes
why do you val does that make sense you
with me then the question becomes why do
you value yourself
less than them and that essentially
comes back
to confidence or in this case i would
put it slightly differently
worth so blair
what are you worth
uh i don't know how to answer that
that's a hard question right so let me
put it to you this way
what are you worth when you're the top
seller at your interior design place
um i am worth
millions of dollars absolutely so we're
gonna call that a lot
yeah and then what are you worth if you
no longer have that job
zero dollars so we're going to call that
very little worth
yeah and now we get to the core of your
fear which is that your worth as a human
being is not
intrinsic it's based on external stuff
yeah and as long as that's true
as long as like so now i'm gonna turn
this off for a second okay
okay and we're gonna go back to
this and we're gonna see your face for a
moment maybe we can go back to the ipad
so here's the thing
as long as you
i just see why do i see two of me
there we go boom or dr kale catch up at
some point
thank you thank you for letting me know
though so here's the thing like like
as long as your worth is determined by
external things like
that that that's the very definition
of lack of confidence right because like
confidence is about
worth that comes from within okay
and then the question becomes well how
do you get that
yes you do because because
what is your worth when it comes to
baking
[Music]
are you good at baking but it's like
nobody needs that
nobody needs a cupcake what where the
do you get that idea i think the
world would be
a way better place just think think
about what you just said
yeah because i think the exact opposite
is true
i think sometimes
the only thing that people need is a
cupcake
uh yeah i don't i don't know
i mean it's like it's so frivolous like
it's so
it's not though okay so let me let me
ask you a question so let's say
hypothetically so i work at an inpatient
psychiatric hospital
there are lots of people there who are
depressed suicidal
addicted with drawing and i go to i go
to work every day and we talk about
all of their problems and we adjust
their medications and stuff like that
how fun do you think their life is
not fun okay what do you think happens
to their life if i bring in a dozen
cupcakes and give one to each of my
patients
i think they're excited about cupcakes
absolutely do i'm telling you do not
underestimate the value of a cupcake
i i have always said that like the
reason
that i'm in to baking is it it it's
always been that that way for me to like
have an easy way to fit in if that makes
sense like if i go to a party it's like
i bring
cookies and then it's like people are
like oh it's the girl that brought
cookies and so they're like nicer to me
yeah so i think that's that's tricky
right because it's feeding into your
insecurity so
here's kind of the punch line around
confidence
is so if i actually let me ask you this
so let's say like i'm trying to teach my
kid to ride a bike
and she's got training wheels right so
if i want
so when she rides a bike the reason that
she falls over
is because she has uh sorry she the
reason she doesn't fall over
is because she has training wheels or
because she knows how to ride a bike
um probably because she has training
wheels
absolutely right so if she's anxious
about her ability to ride a bike and i
add training wheels her anxiety goes
down and what happens to her confidence
she it's lower because she's relying on
the training oils right like she's
there we go right okay okay okay so now
we're gonna go we're gonna go back
my cookies are my training wheels
absolutely my friend
beautifully beautifully put hold on okay
now i gotta try to share this now we're
gonna go back
okay can you see this yes
okay all right so now we're gonna go
back here oh
so here's the problem
what happens if you don't wear a hat
[Music]
my forehead looks big okay and then you
and then you stream yeah and then if you
have a good stream then what happens
if i stream and i'm not wearing a hat
yep i mean it doesn't matter because
it's always
you know a new person's gonna come in
tomorrow sure
what happens at the end oh hold on a
second
hello hey
huh
oh sweet okay
come on okay
there we go fixed thank you
whoa
damn my producers and tech people are
legit
that's great okay so here here's the
thing all right
so if you um
so if you don't wear the hat your
anxiety increases
but then what happens is you're taking
the training wheels off
all right yeah okay and here's the
problem is that you could have a good
stream or you could have a bad stream
yeah but the funny thing is i think
either way
your confidence is going to increase
interesting right because like if i if i
have my kid and i take the training
wheels off
she could fall yeah it's gonna happen
yeah but she's not always gonna fall
and the more she falls or not falls
the more she's able to tolerate her
anxiety because like here's the
i mean i don't know if you can imagine
this but literally like if i talk to her
about taking the training wheels off
she panics because she's afraid
yeah she's anxious yes and so
here's the thing if you're talking about
overcoming anxiety
wearing a hat is not overcoming anxiety
it's feeding into it
yeah it's making it go away artificially
you know if you use drugs or other forms
of things to like make your art like
your anxiety like
artificially decrease instead of
grappling with it
your confidence is never going to grow
all that's going to happen is you're
going to fall into the cycle
over and over and over again
and what you need to do unfortunately is
face
your anxiety right and we kind of talk
about that and like with with my
daughter like what we do is we we
take the training wheels off and then we
explain to her that hey like you could
fall but you may not i have faith in you
if you do fall i'm going to be here and
i'm going to help you get back up
and we're going to try again and the
more that we do that the more confident
she's going to be
interesting okay so here's the other
thing
when it comes to baking and it when it
comes to you being funny
i think somewhere along the way
you let yourself crack a junk in spite
of your anxiety yes
and when you crack jokes in spite of
your anxiety
then what happens to your confidence uh
it goes down
confidence goes down or up i think down
doesn't it because isn't that just like
a bad coping mechanism
i don't think so so so here's my thought
okay so like
i have a joke
okay and so then you have low confidence
right so if you give in to your low
confidence stay silent
therefore um
i'm not funny
does that make sense yeah okay so let's
say yeah okay
i am funny this is what you believe
right like you know you're funny
yeah so if this route leads to i'm not
funny
how do we get here so how do you know
you're funny
by making a joke and having people laugh
at it
make a joke but like
how did you make a joke if you're not
confident
okay i see now right so the funny thing
is this is possible too this is
inaction coping
giving in to
insecurity
this is is insecurity and
confidence like this like is being
secure and being confident the same
thing
i think so okay well sort of
so so insecure confidence so so let me
just finish this like
do you get how like here either you
control for factors and don't open
yourself up to hurt
which is giving in into insecurity or
you roll the dice
yeah and then sometimes you make a joke
i'm not funny yeah right
yes but here's the crazy thing is when i
ask you about that blair this is the
only time that we've talked about you
not doing a good job and what are you
doing right now
laughing how do you feel right now
uh how do i feel in this moment
i don't know i feel okay why because i
just talked about all the jokes that you
made that aren't funny
and when you remember all the times you
weren't funny
how the are you laughing instead of
like falling into your anxiety
because even when they're not funny
they're kind of funny
that's confidence my friend that's
it okay
even when i'm not funny i'm funny that's
the nature of confidence
even when i have a bad stream it's a
good stream
even when people call me balding i'm
i'm a beautiful person okay
do you see how like literally what
you're doing right now is something
that's very very important and very
beautiful to see
which is that you were accepting that
you were flawed and you're
laughing in its face
and you're okay with it yeah but that's
easy like i don't know being funny like
saying like accepting your sense of
humor is so much easier than like
accepting the way you look
does that mean is that fair i think it's
fair
for you okay
right so i'm sure you can imagine that
there are people out there
who are who
beg to differ right there are people out
there who are anxious about how funny
they are
okay yeah and maybe don't care so much
about their looks
but i generally speaking i agree that
it's easier to be anxious about your
looks than it is
to be about you know being funny i see
two of me again
oh sorry thank you okay
all right okay so
but i i think like so here's the thing
is i i think you've done it right so
you've learned how to gain confidence
and the key thing is that you got to
roll the dice at some point
and the more that you give in to your
anxiety and this is true of ocd as well
like i've worked with some people who
have ocd
and the more they feed their ocd like
the stronger it grows
yeah so the most extreme case of ocd
that i've ever heard of
i'm not a personal person like i don't
even know if it's real
so one of my ocd instructors once
told me that like someone had such a
phobia of bugs
that they like they like dug
into the ground around their bed
and they dug a trench and they put like
toxic chemicals
they encircled their bed they moved it
to the middle of the room they encircled
their bed
in a moat of toxic chemicals so that
bugs couldn't fall inside
that's kind of hype it's crazy
i think well i i i'm that way with like
flying like flying on airplanes is that
way
uh like i'll drive 18 hours before i'll
fly for the sake of avoiding a flight
yeah and so the interesting thing is
that when you do that
it makes that person feel less anxious
because they feel protected
yeah but it doesn't actually like it
makes your experience of anxiety
less and it makes the size of the
anxiety beast in your mind
bigger yeah yeah
i understand that i think i think the
hardest thing is like
um with the confidence is like i i i
like
after like years of like not
being confident speaking of i think i
just like picked a zit so that's
embarrassing um
years of not being confident like how i
don't i just don't know like it seems it
seems like such a daunting task to try
to like figure out how to be confident
you know what i'm saying like
absolutely so so that's awesome it is
exhausting
so this is where i think it starts with
like little things right
so it starts with like uh honestly
you've got to roll the dice and you've
got to take a chance
because i think the other big big
confusing thing is that people assume
confidence comes from success
but actually confidence comes from
failure
i see what do you see like
are you saying like if you fail then you
can like like reflect on it in a way and
know that you like at least you tried
like i
or no it survived it that
okay right because here's the thing like
you're afraid of something coming to
pass
i'm afraid of failing a class yeah
and then once i actually fail a class
and then it's like oh
i'm actually still around and i
recovered from that
like you're down in the pits for a
little while and then you come out of it
and that's where you have faith in
yourself that's where faith in yourself
comes from
it comes from overcoming challenges not
stacking the deck in your favor so that
you don't have to face them
what about like what about like just
like fitting in in general you know what
i'm saying like how do you like
like is that something you even spend
your time worrying about or
yeah so absolutely right so at some
point and when it comes to fitting in
you have to take a chance so you're not
going to feel confident
until you give people the chance to
reject you
and they don't
cool that sounds not fun
yep but you've done it before when it
comes to jokes
yeah i see right yeah how concerned are
you about the zit or whatever
it's like it's eating me up a lot in the
inside yeah yeah okay so that's fine
no no it's not fine okay so close your
eyes blair
we're gonna meditate now bleeding
okay people can see my zits bleeding
okay i mean that's
i know it doesn't feel all right well
now your camera's blurry so i think
we're fine
okay so blair can you put put the tissue
down
okay no licking all right so you feel it
you
okay never mind you can leave it there
you want to leave it there do it
yeah okay just leave it there close your
eyes
okay so tell me what you feel
anxious huh i said anxious
okay what are you anxious about uh
uh my zit is bleeding and it's gross
okay and people are gonna think i'm
gross
okay so look at my face uh-huh
wait i can't see your face wait why
can't you see my face
i don't know
there it is okay look at your
face i'm so sorry
okay so so look at my face is this the
face
of someone who's grossed out
no i don't know maybe you're pretending
not to be grossed out maybe you are
grossed out okay there it is
right so so now what's your mind doing
maybe i'm pretending yeah but but
the sensory input that you're receiving
now look at my face let's not we'll get
to whether i'm pretending in a second
is this the face of someone who is
grossed out
no okay so when you see the sensory
input
what does your mind do
it continues to assume that you're
exactly yeah
exactly right i've always said this is
like a weird thing and maybe this is
like totally
off base but like i've always said like
it as weird as it is like
so my mom used to uh she used to text me
every single day and be like
i hope you're having a good day remember
that you're beautiful or just like stuff
like that like just constantly telling
me like
positive things about myself sorry this
is super dumb
um but then when she died it was like
i lost that and so it's like
something as little as like being told
something positive about yourself every
single day to like not having that i
think like
me up yeah
because it's like with and i'd always
say like oh your mom has to say that
like your mom has to be nice to you and
that was my way of like oh it doesn't
mean anything
but now that i don't have someone who
has to be nice to me it's like
what is that feeling of
sad yeah
when did she pass away uh four years ago
sounds like she was actually really
supportive yeah she was awesome
well i grew up so i grew up mormon um
and the rest of my family is very very
lds um and even my mom was lds
but she was still supportive of me in
like like even though like
even though i don't know if that makes
sense like even though i wasn't
exactly holy or i wasn't perfect or i
wasn't
following the words of wisdom or all
that mormon stuff
um i'm like like my dad has said to me
like oh like
i'll never pay for your wedding if you
don't get married at a mormon temple
which is fine like it's like i don't
need my dad to pay for my wedding but
it's stuff
it's stuff like that where it's just
like
well i'll never be good enough to
him but i was good enough to my mom but
no she's not
here to tell me that i'm good enough i
don't know is that weird
no not at all i don't know so
here's what i'm i i think everything
just clicked for me
because here's what i'm hearing i'm
hearing that
in order to be valued you were taught
because we asked you this question
earlier right when did you learn that
you had to like
be a certain way and get people to like
you to make them happy
when you like my whole life right i
think it happened earlier than high
school i didn't say that
but now we kind of see because you've
been taught your entire life that your
value as a human being has nothing to do
with who you are
it has to do with what you do on the
outside
yeah and you had one person in your life
who said
actually whether you wear a hat or you
wear makeup or this
or any of that does not matter i
care about you
for you the person who you are
not the person that you pretend to be
not the top seller at the interior
design
not the person who streams but the
person the core
of who you are as a person is someone
that i like and value and appreciate
and she she was the one beacon that gave
you value in a world
that judged you for all kinds of
yeah like stupid stuff like i like if i
wore a tank top my dad would
like always be like oh you're like you
know showing yourself off and it's like
i don't like you know like just silly
stuff like that like it's not silly
though right
it's about as silly as giving someone a
cupcake is meaningless
yeah seriously i'm not kidding i mean
it's not a joke
yeah right because you you do this thing
where you invalidate a lot and you
downplay a lot of like what your
experience
is you call to yourself i is this dumb
am i dumb you keep on saying that about
yourself no
blair you're not dumb it's not dumb it's
not insignificant
it's the very opposite you undervalue so
much of your experience and so much of
your contribution which is like that's
not fair
because you're worth more than that
which is the whole reason we're having
this conversation because i don't think
you understand that
yeah i don't know i don't i don't know i
just like and it's one of those things
where it's like i feel like i've always
struggled with like figuring out even
the right route to go
because like for example and this is
another big jump in things
it's like so in high school
i uh i went to like rehab for two weeks
for like uh
like depression and an eating disorder
and
then when i came back from rehab
everyone in high school called me crazy
they called me like
oh that girl that went to rehab so it's
like even though i went to
live and get help for these things it
was like well i was harassed for that so
it feels like no matter what i do
there's a negative outcome
so that just sucks like like my you know
like
if i if i feel like i don't fit in at
school because
my sister is there and she's very mormon
and she would
yell at me if i wore a certain thing to
school but then my friends wouldn't hang
out with me if i was dressed a certain
way it was just like
it was a never-ending paths of like
there's
no way to go to please everyone and if i
even try to make myself happy it makes
my family unhappy or it makes my friends
unhappy or it does like
you know it's just like it's exhausting
sounds like you're
yeah there's no right choice ever like
ever
yeah and i don't know if you remember
but at the beginning we talked about
conflict
yeah right how you're conflicted do you
share mental health stuff because it
burns you
and and like now blair like it sort of
makes sense right like you're concerned
about your appearance because it sounds
like
your entire life you've been judged
based on your appearance
and and in such it's it they didn't just
judge you like they didn't
judge your appearance there's a
difference between judging your
appearance
and judging you based on your appearance
because like you were literally taught
there was like 10 year old blair
who is taught that your value as a human
being depends on whether you dress like
a hussy
yeah you know like there's certain
things and if you wear
those things your worth as a person
decreases yeah
which is kind of crazy
yeah right yeah
no it is yeah and so here's the
the unfortunate thing which is that that
stuff like carries with you right like
your your brain has been programmed it's
not that you're
i mean sure i'm sure you can get
diagnosed with all kinds of fit but i
don't think that you're sick
i think what you are is conditioned yeah
you're conditioned to feel worse about
yourself
when it comes to your appearance
and somehow you've managed to undo some
of that conditioning
when it comes to things like baking or
humor
yeah because i'm not hearing your dad
ever say
you're not a good human being because
you attacked a joke what i'm hearing him
say
is like you're not a good human being if
you wear a tank top
what do you think how how let's just
pause for a second
i'm just seeing you process yeah no i'm
just yeah
that's all i'm doing is that's yeah
that's what i'm doing it's just
processing it just
just i don't know i don't know how i
don't know how to get better at it like
i'd love to get better at it i just
don't know how
yeah great that's an excellent question
so i think the first thing
so here's how you get better okay so the
first thing is that it sounds like
you may actually i don't know if you
have mental health treatment providers
but i think this is
absolutely the kind of that you
talk about in therapy this may be
therapy level stop
and what i mean by that is like it
sounds like at one point you had an
eating disorder
there may be some kind of i mean i think
i know i think everything gets called
anxiety in your case i really think
about it more like trauma to be honest
and not to say that you have ptsd but
like this is the other problem with
mental health is that
you know trauma can have effects on your
psychology that are not ptsd
yeah and so i think understanding those
like this is the whole problem is that
everyone equates in psychiatry they
equate
trauma with ptsd but ptsd is a specific
condition but i i think you've been you
know taught
lots of things about how your value is
as a person
i think you've got to explore those that
sounds dramatic
i also think it you know unfortunately i
don't know
if you can do this alone or maybe you
can do it alone but
i don't think it's worth it to try so i
think you should get help from some kind
and the therapy may be a good idea but
it's not just therapy right because i
think the other thing that we're hearing
is that like you had a very positive
influence in your life that you haven't
had for four years
and while there's no replacement for
your mom there should absolutely be
people in your life
who treat you the same way that she
treated you because you deserve that
do you have other people like that
yeah but i think uh
it's a lot of pressure to put on
somebody right like
like nobody should have to like i don't
know like i don't expect anyone to be
nice to me
yeah so that thought needs to change
when you say it's
it's it's a lot of pressure to put on
someone what are you putting on them
um i don't know them to be
like you know like that's a lot like i
don't know it's a lot to like
sure so you know like and i don't want
to ask people to care about me
like i don't know why not
uh because it's selfish
so just because it's selfish doesn't
mean that you don't deserve
it
i don't think and this might be totally
off-base but i don't think anybody like
deserves
anything i don't know like i don't think
i deserve anything
i think i have to like work hard to earn
it
like i don't deserve anyone
to care about me i don't does that make
sense
it does make sense i just disagree
okay i think that
you are worth people caring about you
what do you think about that
and maybe i don't know maybe
i'll i'll take a maybe that's good
enough yeah and it's okay for you to say
no because i think this is a foreign
concept to you
yeah so i think you've got to think
about it and i agree that you should
work for what you get in life and also
like let me put it to you this way
let's say i show up at the hospital with
my dozen cupcakes
do those people deserve cupcakes
no i guess not
they i mean they do in a way of like you
can make them happier and
yeah so that's the really tricky thing
right so like i would actually say even
though i know this doesn't make any
sense
and maybe this is a problem with the
language that we're using i'd say yes
yeah i'd say they do deserve a cupcake
i'd say that if your life is in the
it's okay for other for you to feel
and for other feel people to feel
beholden to making your life better
i think it's okay to ask someone to care
about you
even though in a sense it's not fair you
don't owe them anything
and that's the problem with i think the
word deserve is it's not like they owe
you anything but you absolutely deserve
it
you deserve to have people in your life
who care about you as a person
because that's something that all human
beings deserve yeah
and and the simplest way that i think
about it is is sure your mom has to care
about you but like that's just the start
it doesn't mean that other people don't
like that's actually the problem
is that we live in a society where we
generally don't as human beings we don't
think that we
owe other human beings caring and
like also that we don't acknowledge that
we
ourselves deserve to be cared for
you know like i deserve to be loved like
absolutely literally
so do my kids and so do you so does
twitch chat
i don't know where along the way we like
decided that
independent like i don't know what's
happening but like it sounds
mind-boggling to me that i think they do
deserve cupcakes
yeah okay i think you have the capacity
to make other human beings happy and
that that's a responsibility that you
have
and similarly like that's not a one-way
street like you deserve to be on the
receiving end of cupcakes you deserve
people to be baking for you too why not
it's weird yeah no it all makes sense it
makes a lot of sense i mean if anything
like i am
like i feel like i am always that person
that's like okay like
you know like even though i say like oh
they don't deserve cupcakes i'm still
the one that's like
even if they don't deserve them like i
want other people to be happy so here
you go like here's this like i feel like
i'm
i feel like my happiness like i get like
making other people happy even if i give
them 100
happiness at least it gives me like a
feeling of one percent because i did
that like i helped them be happy so that
makes
me happier but at the end of the day i
feel like
sometimes maybe that's not enough like
you know what i'm saying yeah it's not
enough because you know what what needs
to happen is that needs to be a two-way
street player
right so like you should be doing that
for them and they should be doing that
for you
and i think what's what's happened is i
don't know if you have people
in your life like your mom because like
you know it's kind of your mom's job but
she goes out of her way to make your
life better on a daily basis
yeah there's no one like that ever but
you know what i'm saying like i don't
think
i don't think they're my my mother was
insane like in that way
like and she juggled it like she every
single one of her kids felt that way
every single one of her friends felt
that way it's like
it's insane it's crazy like
i don't i don't even know how to be like
that and i witnessed it for
years you know and so it's just like i
was just really lucky
uh and so it sucks to lose that
it does absolutely
and i think you may be closer to your
mom than you think you are
in terms of being able to do that she
had a little bit more practice than you
do
yeah she uh was insane yeah but yeah
i don't know sounds like you miss her a
lot
i don't really know what to say now it's
okay
i'm just going to be quiet for a second
while my brain tries to figure out what
i should do
we've done it we've broken
i'm confused are we
[Music]
talking about today who knows
i don't know how to be happy i think is
that what we're doing
sure so what do you think how do you be
happy
i think good side i think
i think it's like the forehead answer
where it's like oh just accept yourself
or head but
that's a journey and how does one go
about accepting themselves
what are a couple steps along that
journey
i don't i don't know yet um based on
what we talked about i feel like
maybe stop like uh using my anxiety as a
crutch essentially
um and hopefully that'll help
boost some confidence no matter how
stressful that sounds uh yep
oh it's absolutely it's gonna be
stressful so and
let me just clarify so i don't think
it's stop using your anxiety i'd say
pick a tiny tiny training wheel you've
got big training wheels and you have
tiny tiny ones
yeah so notice you know when you're
doing something to alleviate your
anxiety and recognize that like
ultimately for your anxiety to be gone
you can't be alleviating it all the time
yeah i'm curious what your thought is on
like
so for example like social anxiety right
so if i like
go into a room and this is just based on
something
a therapist in the past has told me and
i'm curious if it works because at the
same time i can see it
also hindering like being a crutch in
some way
or kind of doing the opposite of what
you've said like so
essentially what she told me to do is
like if i go into a room
you know and i'm anxious that i'm like
oh that person hates me like everybody
hates me here everybody hates me here or
let's say
sam some guy named sam sam hates me sam
can't understand me sam thinks i'm dumb
sam blah blah blah blah all these
negative things
what she said to do was then go back and
write down the thoughts so
sam hates me and then write down the
reality
which is sam has not said that he hates
me and then write down
like the like what the act the new
thought should be which is
sam has not said anything that signifies
that he hates me so he does not hate me
does that is that still valuable or is
that just a
crutch in that way what do you think
i don't know i i i'm scared it's a
crutch
i don't think it's a crutch but i think
that it doesn't work for everyone that's
what i would say okay
so let's understand like what that
practice actually does
so the problem with anxiety is that we
assume
that thoughts are facts yeah
right so what this this is a practice
that encourages you to recognize
that your thoughts are not truth that
are just thoughts
yeah and in your case i think this is a
very important thing to learn
because you have a lot of thoughts that
come from your conditioning
but just because you are conditioned to
believe a certain thing doesn't make
that thing true
like wearing a tank top does not mean
anything about you it just means you're
wearing a tank top
yeah right but like like people in the
mormon church
may believe like is is in a factual way
that wearing a tank top means that you
were a bad person
yeah and like they're it it's not
it's not that absurd of a belief right
so like
we can judge we judge people based on
what they wear all the time like if i
walk around like if i go to like
uh like a kindergarten and i'm wearing
nothing but a speedo
like that's not acceptable right so like
it's
like human beings all the time judge
people for the articles of clothing that
they wear and that's not necessarily a
bad thing
also if i like you know go to the
hospital in a speedo like that's not
honestly anywhere in a speedo anywhere
so so like you know it's not it's not
necessarily that they're wrong it's just
that
you know thoughts are not facts and so
what that practice does is it helps you
recognize that your thoughts are not
facts
it's not the only way what i seem to try
to do
is instead of like doing that practice i
like i just like have become very
confrontational over the years and so
now it's just like i'll just approach
the person be like
are you mad at me do you not like me as
like trying to get a
an answer and then it's like great i
walk away from that conversation
thinking
okay they said that they are not mad at
me and that they do like me
but they lied like it's like
yep so so we can see that the root of
the thought is not
fixed by the reassurance all the
reassurance does
is alleviates the anxiety in the short
term that's a training wheel
okay right because like all you're doing
it's the equivalent of putting on a
baseball hat
to manage your anxiety of of you know
whatever
yeah so it's just it's covering it up
and that can be exhausting for other
people i'm not trying to scare you but
sometimes what happens of it is some
people need a lot of reassurance and the
problem is that when you reassure
someone and relate sort of
when you reassure someone in a
relationship sometimes it can feed their
need for reassurance
and it's kind of tricky because like
sometimes you just they deserve to be
you know you deserve some degree of
reassurance like it's healthy yeah
so but it also is too much like i know
it's too much personally like i know i
need reassurance way too much and i
don't
i want to know how to stop that because
it's so obnoxious
here's how you stop it where do you get
the idea in the first place that they
hate you
anxiety yeah where does that come from
so like when did he not liking myself
is that like a canned answer that's
actually what you believe no i
i think i think it's like it's like oh
since i don't like myself why would
anybody else like me
good so why don't you like yourself
i don't know okay so so now this
comes back to confidence right
right so like you're you're right blair
that like in order to
rip this anxiety out root and stem
and it makes sense like if you don't see
any value in yourself how on earth
would other people see value in you like
it's not illogical it's not dumb in fact
it's the exact opposite
right it makes perfect sense but then
the question becomes it comes
back to like why don't you see value in
yourself like blair are you a good
person
yes do you believe that
yeah yes i've never done like yeah i'm
not a bad person
okay i've done lots of good things
do you have value as a human being
you know like i feel like anything i do
anybody else could do
okay so see there we go so are you a
good person yes
are you a valuable person so there you
go again devaluing yourself
yeah because i don't think anything that
anything you could do could be done by
anyone else i don't believe that it
sounds to me
like you're a specific i think you are
probably one of the best people in the
world
to bake a cake
and put a joke on top
okay right so like i think that some
people can't do what you do
but there you go devaluing yourself and
now we get to the most difficult
question
are you attractive no
right so like that's kind of interesting
so like are you a good person sure
are you do you have value no and are you
i mean maybe
and then are you attractive and you say
no
now somewhere in there
you have certain perceptions about who
you are as a person
and i don't know where those were born
but i think you've got to figure those
out
right so like how long have you been
you know what when were you taught
that your value yeah so i actually i i
mean i can even answer this for you so i
think like we know in terms of like your
value as another person
the only things that you value about
yourself or when you have clear
overwhelming evidence that you're
superior to others
and that's why you compare that's why
you're perfectionistic
right so like the reason you're
perfectionistic it's not because you're
like messed up in some way it's because
the only way that you can convince
yourself
that you have value is if you're if if
you're at the top of your class
and so in a weird way that's a training
wheel for your lack of self-worth
because if you can prove to everyone
else and yourself
you're like look at this medal i have
see how gold it is
then i'm a good person yeah so
where did you get like when did this
this idea that you have to be a gold
medalist
to have value like where did you learn
that like who taught you that
i don't it's what's weird because like i
said like my my mother was very like
supportive no matter what so i don't
know where it came from i think it might
have
come like internally maybe because like
like for example like my brother was
like varsity basketball played
basketball in college my other brother
was varsity basketball played basketball
college my sister was varsity volleyball
played volleyball in college i got cut
from the volleyball team
there it is i was bad at everything like
and what did your dad say when you got
cut from the volleyball team
he was nice like he you know he like he
took me and got ice cream but it's like
it
i think it was just like a
self-comparison thing like always trying
to catch up with everyone else
cause i was just i'm just i'm just bad
at like i'm just not
good at those things so it's just like i
think
i i don't know where it came from
exactly because my dad was even
supportive if i
if i didn't i think it was more just
like i put it on myself
because i just wanted to fit in with my
own family because it's like i didn't
fit in
like they're all very religious and i
didn't fit in that way so it's my way to
fit in was trying to be good at sports
but i was awful at sports
and so maybe it's that like no one put
pressure on me besides myself
i think in that context
so that makes sense and yet i'm gonna
disagree because i think
i think if you feel like you don't fit
in in your family
like that's not just something that the
default is that kids feel like they fit
in
oh right okay i think i know why
i think i know i it's very it's very
heavy chat i don't want you to get like
you know
i don't want anyone to feel a certain
way but
i actually think i know why and i've
never like tied this together until
literally this moment um but
and i've said this on my chat before so
it's like it's fine as it
as a kid i was um
sexually molested by a neighbor and
um and it made me feel like
i would never fit in because as a mormon
you have to be perfect and you have to
be pure and i was taken advantage of and
what was i supposed to do
so maybe it's that like because that i
remember just never
like you know like oh now i have this
big secret that i can't tell anyone my
family because i don't want anyone to
get in trouble because he told me that i
couldn't tell anybody or i'd get in
trouble
and so it could just be that maybe um
and so yeah so i was imperfect from like
age
seven and so like how am i supposed to
fit in with everyone else
right so like let me ask you something
blaire
are you imperfect yeah but i think
everyone is
are you more imperfect than other people
no you sure
yes so that's confusing to me
because this whole time what you've been
telling us is the opposite
yeah well no because i think i think
perfection and value are different is
that weird
sure yeah so so so no no it's not weird
so i think this is good
so like so now let's let me just tell
you a couple of other things okay so
first of all
in a sense not surprising so like just
statistically right so if you look at
women or just people who tend to have a
low sense of self-worth
have eating disorders and anxiety
and we kind of talked about trauma right
a little while ago
oftentimes there is something like
sexual physical or emotional abuse at a
very young age
yeah and that happens so like eating
disorders as well or about
controlling things that are out of your
control
yeah and and what i'm hearing from you
like is like basically the threat of
this entire conversation
is that you on the inside are not good
enough
yeah but i also i feel like it's a it's
a consistent problem and so that's why
it's like i feel like it just requires
like
it requires a lot of self-reflection
slash i feel like that's why i've
accepted it
because like no matter what i do it's
like a reoccurring theme
in my life like i i dated someone who
was
physically violent with me and i
i did another person that constantly
told me i wasn't good enough for them so
it's just like it's just like this
this never-ending cycle it seems and i
don't i don't
know if i like put myself in those
situations or how
like why it always seems to happen
yeah so we can talk about that too so
here's the crazy thing
i think that i know this is i'm not
blaming you for this but i've seen this
pattern over and over again it's
something that's actually well described
as something called the repetition
compulsion
so something about so i think we should
look at how you
select people that you
go out with and my guess
maybe this is a conversation for a
different day because there's a whole
other can of worms
there are some people who treat you with
more value than you believe you deserve
and that you actually pull away from
them
and you gravitate towards people that
make you feel the way that you feel
about yourself
because that makes sense
right and like when you walk in and
everyone's like oh hey
like blair's here awesome blair and
and then you're like i'm confused i
forgot my cupcakes and they're like
that's no problem
and that's confusing for you
yeah and then like what makes more sense
to you is like the group of people and
that makes you uncomfortable
and then the next day you go to a party
and then they're like oh hey blair's
here and you're like i forgot my
cupcakes and they're like well
go get it go back home and get them
and then you're like oh
okay fine and oddly enough you're more
comfortable with the second group than
the with the first group
because they treat you the way that you
believe
you deserve to be treated yeah i don't
i don't know it's it's it's so strange
because i feel like every single person
that i've ever dated has been so
drastically different like the first guy
it was kind of like
he was he was crazy he was very insane
and that one makes sense but then like
and that was the that was like the
physically abusive guy and then the next
guy
was very very sweet but would constantly
like when i would say like you know like
what are your thoughts on me they'd be
like oh well you don't check all my
boxes
like you're like uh you know you're
you're yeah
they don't sound that different to me
that's so weird because they're like
very different people but like
but it is true i get confused when
people are nice to me like
i'll be like well why did you do this
yeah so here's here's the here's the
tricky thing
so when there is someone who you could
prospectively date
and they're nice to you do you pull away
from them
or yes i guess i guess for like many
months but now i'm in a situation where
i feel like
well like i'm with someone that is very
nice to me good
now be careful because do they so like
like that's the weird thing right it's
like
like it's strange but you do pull away
from them because that's what you were
taught it's kind of like you know if i
i can't come up with a good analogy but
like you know i'm i'm gonna
gravitate towards people who share my
view because it can be really confusing
you know if i walk down the street and
everyone thinks that like i'm a dog
like i'm not it's hard for me to relate
to those people because i don't think
i'm a dog
but i'm going to relate to the people
it's easy it's more comfortable for me
to be with what i know
yeah i guess it does make me more
anxious because it's like well then what
why would you be with me if you're so
nice like exactly right
and so then that those kinds of thoughts
when they get out of hand can actually
torpedo the relationship
yes very much so because and there we
have it
so we can dig into this in more detail
if you want but
i think maybe enough for today what do
you think
[Laughter]
how are you feeling uh i feel fine
i feel like
you know there's there's no abrupt
answer
um but i feel like so i mean my biggest
thing
my biggest question i guess is what
what do i do instead of looking for that
reassurance like what do i do instead of
saying oh do you like me
are you do you hate me are you sure you
don't hate me like what do i do to
stop that so the first thing you've got
to do is stop feeding it
okay so like this is where like you're
gonna have an impulse
right and and like there are times where
you're gonna give in to the impulse
and they're gonna be times where you
resist the impulse just do so with
awareness
just say like oh hey i'm feeling like
this person really dislikes me right now
and it would really make me feel better
if i asked them and got some reassurance
and then decide
can i tolerate this feeling of anxiety
right now
or is it too much if i it can i if it's
almost like
like i call it urge surfing so urges
can be like surfed they don't last
forever
and over time like it'll like so here's
like the anxiety like
goes up and then it peaks and then even
if you do nothing about it it's gonna go
down
you're not gonna be anxious for the rest
of your life which is not how yes
they come and they go so you figure out
what you can serve
like what can you manage what can you
wait until like the tide rolls out again
and then you're like in a good space and
then the other thing that you do is you
watch
as as you go and you reassure yourself i
want you to hold on to a small
part of blair who's watching and saying
okay here's my anxiety
my anxiety is an 80 out of 100. i'm
going to walk up to him i'm going to ask
him a question
and i'm going to listen to the words and
i'm going to watch don't even pay
attention to the words
watch what happens in your anxiety and
he says yeah
no you're you're awesome i like you a
lot and then you're like that's
weird it went from an 80 to a 90.
because it doesn't go down right you
have to ask again you have to ask again
and then the fourth time you asked are
you sure and then after four or five
times then it's like oh it went from a
95 like back down to 70 and you're like
hold on
i'm still feeling kind of anxious and
not even that much better than before
and as you start to like reflect and
understand like how to play this game
that is blair's life you'll start to get
control over it
okay and like literally like here's
another just very simple example
so you want to meditate
yeah we can meditate do you meditate you
know how to meditate i used to a lot
i do a lot okay so i don't much anymore
i'm gonna be can i be a little bit
can i challenge you yes okay
so sit up straight back straight
next straight okay
all right eyes closed okay
so it's gonna be hard okay you gotta let
me know if it's too much okay i'm gonna
troll you just a tiny amount
okay so think about taking off your hat
okay how do you feel right there it is
good i'm not actually gonna ask you to
take off your hats and okay cool
but i i want you to feel that feeling
right so like all it takes is a thought
and then what do you feel
uh uncomfortable okay what does that
feel like
um
uh it feels like like
you know like it's hard to describe it
feels like uh
i instantly like i can't my like i can't
think straight
um like my chest is tight good so like
watch that so
hold on to a tiny piece of blair and
recognize that like
you're in danger mode right because like
until i told you i'm not gonna ask you
to take it off
i can imagine you're like oh is he
gonna ask me to take it off yeah
right so like there's all of that
anxiety so sit with that for a second
that chest tightness
and now breathe into it so tilt your
head up a little bit
good there we go now breathe in
feel that expansion in your chest and
then
let the tightness pull your chest back
in now just breathe out
let your chest recoil
now notice what's happening to the
anxiety it's probably there
you still feel it is your mind stopping
to function
it's more in my mind that makes sense
more in your mind as opposed to that's
like my like my obsessive thinking like
it just
goes and goes and goes okay good so i
want you to notice that it's going
and now return to your breath so breathe
in
and then exhale very slowly
so continue to breathe keep one eye on
the mind
and with the other eye the analogy is
going to fall apart
i want you to listen to the sound of
your exhalation
okay i got it
are you able to hear it
okay deep breath in
and now what i want you to do
try to increase the sound of the
exhalation by contracting your throat i
know it sounds weird
so just do whatever you can to make the
sound of exhalation larger
are you able to adjust it at all
like an ujjayi breath is that it oh
next level
yeah that's where we're going how the
do you know that
therapy and yoga for years yes
we're moving towards so do you know how
to do ujjayi pranayam
yeah okay so do with jay pranayama
is that ujjayi wrath
slow playing your yoga expertise
so what's happening in your mind as you
do ujjayi breath
it's more focused on the breath than it
is the thoughts
so what's happening to the thoughts is
the result they're quieting
okay what happened to that anxiety about
you taking your hat off
it went quiet
yeah i know it's still in my brain but
it was
it's went back in its box for right now
right so
close your eyes and now we're going to
bring it out
no absolutely nope
sorry you you screwed yourself okay
blair when you mentioned ujjayi that's
when i decided to push you even
further okay okay so think about taking
off your hat again
tell it open up the box and say come on
out buddy
it's it's there yeah good there it is
the second like that's the thing is no
matter how much i
seem to quiet it or comment it takes
like a snap of a second or a snap of a
comment or a snap of a thing to
bring it all back out there there you go
okay
so now yeah see the discomfort is there
now return to a j
right so for those of you who don't know
so like oj breath is
contracting your throat so constricting
your throat so that
the sound of the breath increases and
almost sounds like a whistling
you can also raise your soft mallet if
you know what that sounds like or what
that
is it dwindling at all
yeah okay so now we're gonna do the
third version okay
so now we're gonna let it out again and
this time we're gonna do something
really tricky
we're gonna let it be there and just
watch it
now we know that we can put it back in
the box
so once we learn how to put it back in
the box i know i can see it's hard for
you
good yeah so we're not going to put it
back in the box
okay because now have faith in yourself
that you can make it go away
you can control it but let it out now
let it go
all of those thoughts are going to come
roaring back
right all of these ideas of you being
ugly and pure
and all of this like see it it's so
huge
it's a tornado of negativity
and it's there and it's awful
and blair is there too
you're still there the funny person who
makes cupcakes
and can both of them exist at the same
time
what's that like
feels like normal i guess okay
it is so if it feels normal does that
mean that this is what you're usually
like
this is your default state which is that
your anxieties are present okay
good yeah it always feels like have like
half of me is perpetually stressed about
something always
good so so so just notice that and and
recognize that you can coexist there
in a sense it sounds like it's normal
for you which sounds awful
but at the same time i know this sounds
bizarre
blair but i think that you started the
process of rewiring your neurons
and have changed some of the
automaticity of your thoughts
even over the last five minutes
because it's weird like you can do this
right so the first thing is that you
learn how to put it back in the box
and secondly you don't even need to put
it back in the box
yeah but how do i get rid of it you
don't
i mean you can but the way that you get
rid of it is by not trying to get rid of
it
so all you have to do is stop feeding it
and it'll wither away
oh it's like the wolf the the wolf thing
yeah
exactly okay right so at some point you
know i don't know when you put on your
hat
but i would say in private
you know consider taking off your hat
consider not wearing a hat with
particular people and notices those
thoughts come up
and recognize that that's the wolf
scratching at the door wanting to be fed
yeah
and the more you feed it the bigger it
grows in the hungrier it gets
so you can reverse that cycle in tiny
tiny tiny ways
right also work with a therapist right
right and there's a lot of stuff about
purity and relationships and stuff and
we're just getting started but
yeah okay how do you feel
good it feels like a good refresher
like a good reminder a good um
a good like reminder of like which
path i should be taking versus how i
have been dealing with it even though i
know better like i know i know better
i know i know these things that you just
told me
yes but i have gotten lazy
i think yeah so that too you've got to
be a little bit forgiving towards
yourself
yeah right so knowing what to do is not
the hard part
like the other thing is you're smart so
you're gonna know what to do pretty
easily
it's the actually like you know like i i
mean so my wife
has a joke that i can i collect exercise
equipment
uh-huh and and what is a collection it's
a bunch of that you never use right
like a stamp collection like you never
use the stamps
so i collect exercise like i know that i
should exercise actually exercising is
the hard part
yeah so cut yourself some slack and and
do what you can
and i i think i think you can be free of
this splitter i really do it'll take
some time
and we'll probably talk in years okay to
be honest
yeah in your case but you can be free of
it absolutely
and good luck with the full-time
streaming yeah
yeah yeah that's it we'll see what
happens
okay any questions before we wrap up
no thank you so much you're very welcome
thank you
this is awesome i i think you're it was
fun
for you know so much which actually
makes it
really fun for me because i feel like
i'm not teaching you the basics i'm
teaching you more stuff
yeah no it's helpful yeah yeah okay good
luck
okay take care adios bye bye
okay chat